Hello!

The purpose of this project is to create a sensor that displays a different light pattern depending on the distance an object is, within a certain range. Off when the target is too far away, on when they're close and pulsing when they're extremely close.

PI/Breadboard setup:

You will need ONE ultrasonic distance sensor, TWO ground wires, FOUR normal wires, THREE resistors and ONE light.

Set up your sensor on one of the four courners of the breadboard and connect the necessary wiring according to the ultrasonic distance sensors needs. For example you'll need a ground wire, a regular wire connecting the ECHO to the Rasberry Pi and another wire connecting the
TRIGGER to the Raspberry Pi.

You will need two resistors to ensure the current is managed, otherwise you could fry your Raspberry Pi. For this project I used ONE 330 Ω resistors, ONE 571 Ω resistors and ONE 220 Ω resistor.

Your 571 Ω resistor will be connected to the ground wire for your distance sensor

Your 330 Ω reistor will be connected to the ECHO on your distance sensor

Your light will need it's own GROUND wire, REGULAR wire and a 220 Ω resistor

After you've connected everything to the appropriate places according to your Raspberry Pi. It's time to do the coding.






from gpiozero import DistanceSensor, PWMLED
from time import sleep

sensor = DistanceSensor(echo=23, trigger=24, max_distance=2.0)

led = PWMLED(14)
while True:
    if sensor.distance * 100 > 10.00 and sensor.distance * 100 < 20:
        led.on()
    elif sensor.distance * 100 < 5.00:
        led.pulse()
    elif sensor.distance * 100 >= 20.00:
        led.off()
    sleep(0.25)



Coding:

Once you've imported DistanceSensor PMWLED and sleep all you need to do is set up your sensor = DistanceSensor (Echo, trigger and max_distance vary based on needs/location on the Pi and what you wish to set the distance to.)

Then you create a simple while loop, stating while True the following things occur.

If distance is greater than 10 centimeters but less than 20 centimeters than the light is on.

If the distance is less than 5 centimeters it begins to pulse

Finally if it's greater than 20 centimeters away than it is off entirely.

The sleep is used ensure the system doesn't process it too fast.


USES:

Parking sensor, the different stages of the light will signal to you how close you are.

Security cam, the light can turn on or react depending on the situation like how close someone is.
